TELCODOCS-2125 NIST 800-53 RAN hardening for high security issues 2 (#90286)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ztp-high-security-issues-addressed.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-security-hardening.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ztp-addressed-security-issues_{context}"]
= Security hardening measures implemented

> == Disabling USB boot, wireless and bluetooth access  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Disabling USB boot and wireless and bluetooth access  
```

Reviewer: Or "Disabling USB boot, wireless, and bluetooth access" but the first suggestion seems more accurate depending on whether or not "wireless and bluetooth access" is a thing (together) or not.

> To prevent unauthorized modifications to the operating system and to reduce the risk of physical attack vectors, USB boot, wireless, and Bluetooth are disabled in the BIOS settings. These setting are not controlled through ZTP configuration. For example, disabling USB boot prevents attackers from booting from a USB drive and gaining unauthorized access to the system. The recommended firmware configuration is described in "Configuring host firmware for low latency and high performance".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent unauthorized modifications to the operating system and to reduce the risk of physical attack vectors, USB boot, wireless, and Bluetooth are disabled in the BIOS settings. These settings are not controlled by using ZTP configuration. Disabling USB boot prevents attackers from booting from a USB drive and gaining unauthorized access to the system. The recommended firmware configuration is described in "Configuring host firmware for low latency and high performance".
```

Reviewer: Suggest removing "for example" because it doesn't seem to be an example of how these settings are not controlled by using ZTP configuration.

> == Preventing unauthorized Reboots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Preventing unauthorized reboots
```

> Disabling `CtrlAltDelBurstAction` and `Ctrl+Alt+Del` prevents unauthorized reboots.

Reviewer: Should there be a noun after these? Like "Disabling the `CtrlAltDelBurstAction` and `Ctr+Alt_Del` inputs..." or...?

== Restricting direct SSH access
  

> Direct SSH access to {product-title} is limited by disabling `root` login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Direct SSH access to {product-title} is limited by disabling the `root` login.
```

== Adhering to the principle of least privilege with RBAC
  

> Enforce strict authentication policies by disabling logins for accounts without passwords, ensuring compliance with security best practices and reducing unauthorized access risks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature enforces strict authentication policies by disabling logins for accounts without passwords to ensure compliance with security best practices and reduce unauthorized access risks.
```

> == Ensure that the RBAC setup follows the principle of least privilege

Reviewer: I am kind of confused because to me "Adhering to the principle of least privilege with RBAC" and "Ensure that the RBAC setup follows the principle of least privilege" seem to be the same thing? I would combine these 2 sections. However, maybe you have to have separate headings since these are standards and you need to have a heading for each one? If so, then disregard my suggestion.

To minimize the risk of unauthorized access, the RBAC setup follows the principle of least privilege, as described in "Using RBAC to define and apply permissions", granting users the minimum required permissions. 

> {product-title} provides the tools for creating minimal permissions. However, you need to assess the needs of users and services within your environment and apply the principle of least privilege accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{product-title} provides the tools for creating minimal permissions. However, you must assess the needs of users and services within your environment and apply the principle of least privilege accordingly.
```

> For example, consider creating a role that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, consider creating a role that follows these guidelines:
```

> * Provides permissions to control user access, such as granting users the ability to view resources without modifying them.

Reviewer: These 3 bullets aren't sentences so should not have punctuation

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-security-hardening.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ztp-addressed-security-issues_{context}"]
= Security issues addressed

> == Issue 1: Disable USB boot, wireless and bluetooth access  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Issue 1: Disable USB boot, wireless, and bluetooth access  
```

> To prevent unauthorized modifications to the operating system and to reduce the risk of physical attack vectors, disable USB boot, wireless and bluetooth in the BIOS settings. These setting are not controlled through ZTP configuration. For example disabling USB boot prevents attackers from booting from a USB drive and gaining unauthorized access to the system. The recommended firmware configuration is described in "Chapter 6. Configuring host firmware for low latency and high performance".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To prevent unauthorized modifications to the operating system and to reduce the risk of physical attack vectors, disable USB boot, wireless, and bluetooth in the BIOS settings. These setting are not controlled through ZTP configuration. For example, disabling USB boot prevents attackers from booting from a USB drive and gaining unauthorized access to the system. The recommended firmware configuration is described in "Chapter 6. Configuring host firmware for low latency and high performance".
```

== Issue 2: Disable Ctrl+Alt+Del reboots
 
Disabling CtrlAltDelBurstAction and Ctrl+Alt+Del prevents unauthorized reboots.

== Issue 3:  Restrict SSH access
  
Limit direct SSH access to {product-title} by disabling root login. 

== Issue 4:   Prevent login to accounts with empty passwords
  
Enforce strict authentication policies by disabling logins for accounts without passwords, ensuring compliance with security best practices and reducing unauthorized access risks.

== Ensure that the RBAC setup follows the principle of least privilege

To minimize the risk of unauthorized access, ensure that the RBAC setup as described in "Chapter 8. Using RBAC to define and apply permissions" follows the principle of least privilege, granting users the minimum required permissions. 

[NOTE]
====
{product-title} provides the tools for creating minimal permissions, you need to assess the needs of users and services within your environment and apply the principle of least privilege accordingly.
====

For example you might consider creating:

* A role with minimal permissions to control user access, such as granting users the ability to view resources without modifying them.

> * A role that allows developers to manage only deployments and services within a specific namespace, without granting access to sensitive resources 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A role that allows developers to manage only deployments and services within a specific namespace, without granting access to sensitive resources.
```
